---
title: "3.4.2 Argument-dependent Name Lookup"
date: 2026-04-13T15:32:36+08:00
draft: false
render_with_liquid: false
---

{% raw %}
---
title: 3.4.2 Argument-dependent Name Lookup
tags: [CPP]

---

For each argument type `T` in the function call, there is a set of zero or more associated namespaces and a set of zero or more associated classes to be considered.

The sets of associated namespaces and associated classes are determined in the following way:
— If `T` is a fundamental type, its associated sets of namespaces and classes are both empty.
— If `T` is a class type,
* Its associated classes are the class itself and its direct and indirect base classes.
* Its associated namespaces are the namespaces in which its associated classes are defined.

— If `T` is a union or enumeration type,
* Its associated namespace is the namespace in which it is defined.
* If it is a class member, its associated class is the member’s class; else it has no associated class. 

— If `T` is a pointer to U or an array of U, its associated namespaces and classes are those associated with U.
— If `T` is a function type,
* Its associated namespaces and classes are those associated with the function parameter types and,
* those associated with the return type. 

— If `T` is a pointer to a member function of a class `X`, its associated namespaces and classes are those associated with the function parameter types and return type, together with those associated with `X`.
— If `T` is a pointer to a data member of class `X`, its associated namespaces and classes are those associated with the member type together with those associated with `X`.
— If `T` is a template-id, its associated namespaces and classes are the namespace in which the template is defined; for member templates, the member template’s class; the namespaces and classes associated with the types of the template arguments provided for template type parameters (excluding template template parameters); the namespaces in which any template template arguments are defined; and the classes in which any member templates used as template template arguments are defined. [Note: non-type template arguments do not contribute to the set of associated namespaces. ]
{% endraw %}